# Culture Coding website

## How it works

- Website is build on Jekyll (blogaware engine that generates plain html site)
- Responsive layout is build on ZURB Foundation
- CSS is generated by using SASS (mainly because ZURB Foundation uses SASS)
- CSS ja JavaScript minification uses GulpJs

## Installing development enviroment

- [Git](https://git-scm.com/)
- [Ruby](http://ruby-lang.com)
- [NodeJS](https://nodejs.org/)

After this you need to install following gems (Ruby utility libraries and extensions) 
and npm-packages (Node.js utility libraries and extensions)

- Gulp
- SASS
- Jekyll

The easiest way is to run following command on command line:

```
gem install sass
gem install jekyll
npm install gulp --global
```

## Downloading the sources

There are two options to get code:

1. If you are pussy (and want to minimize need to learn new things) you can use an grafical Git utility. 
I list here some good options a bit later. 
2. Another option is to use command line. Using command line is at first more difficult but once you
understand the basic is a lot faster and efficient way to use git.

If you chose option 2, create root folder for all git repos. (E.g. in Linux my root folder is ~/git/ and in 
windows its c:/git). After that fetch the repository:

```
[TODO]
```

## Modifying and adding pages

- You can add raw html pages or use markdown-wikisyntax
- Jekyll have nice collection of simple addins e.f. for page listings and dynamic linking.
- You can create reusable components (e.g. navis or banners) and page templates easily.
- You can write more complex l.ogic by Ruby. It relatively easy, but you need to 
know basic of Ruby and understand how Jekyll tags and templates works.

